# Responsive Website Design
## Introduction
This is a full functional website including a front and back end that was made as a final courseowork project for a web development module during first year of uni. The website has been built to best meet the given success criteria set out during the course, displaying features such as appropriate, formatted usage of HTML, CSS, JavaScript and PHP (with a little bit of SQL). It's meant to represent a very simple portfolio style website for myself and includes some required areas (such as the skills, experience or functional blog) styled as required (usage of various fonts and using a unique visibly contrasting colour scheme).

## Program Details
### Fron-End
The front end of this website has been developed with the usage of HTML, CSS and JS. Each webpage has been structured by their own HTML file, making use of the language to give shape to the websites and make them functional, including all of the information being displayed by the webpage. Each of the webpages display a list of links that have been clearly labelled allowing users to access each webpage and navigate the website with ease. CSS has been used on top of this HTML to breathe life into the webpages, giving them colour and appropriate formatting. Each webpage uses the same main css file for their design, although some aspects in the CSS is specific to only some of the webpages. It should be noted that the uniform and cohesive appearance formed by the same colour scheme and similar format across each of the webpages was actually required for the assignment. JavaScript has been on some of the webpages to make sure that they can fulfill certain functions although the necessity of some of this code was largely dependent on the requirements of the task. This JavaScript helps in making sure that some of the webpages clearly display certain bits of information for example the need for appropriate information to be entered for a new post being put up on the blog.

### Back-End
On the back end of the website, PHP has been used to allow further information to be able to be displayed as well on the website. As part of the requirements of the project, there needs to be a way to login and add posts to the blog. This feature was made through the use of  PHP and by making use of it, a person with valid loging details could access the "Add Post" webpage that could allow them to write a blog post that could also be previewed in advance before uploading it. These posts are stored using some very simple SQL and contain info on each post, including the title, content and date that the post was submitted. This SQL is executed and made use of through the PHP code which also sorts the blog posts when being displayed and can be used to only show certain posts from given months.

## Further Developments
Although complete and useable, I would like to work on this website further to match my personal use as something to display my web development abilities. As such I plan to work a little further on this website to make it more visually appealing and to also make sure it only contains features, that I feel would make the most sense on such a website. These improvements would include things such as a completely new colour scheme across all the webpages and reformatting a lot of the web pages to allow them to be viewed as very attractive instead. As well as this, some elements or webpages that do not make too much sense would be removed to allow the full website to function without unnecessary info. Upon completing improvements of this website I plan to host it off of replit allowing it to be shared and viewed as appropriate.
